Sandra Moonsamy, the daughter of a multi-billionaire logistics tycoon who went missing in May, was found "bound in chains" when police swooped on her alleged kidnappers on Thursday evening. Moonsamy had been missing for more than 160 days. The Hawks confirmed that Moonsamy was found alive during an intelligence-driven operation in  Emalahleni (Witbank) in Mpumalanga. Police confirmed that two men were arrested in Gauteng, and two others in Emalahleni. Hawks spokesperson Brigadier Hangwani Mulaudzi said Moonsamy was found conscious but in a "bad state" in a house in Mpumalanga, and not Mamelodi as they were originally informed. He said she was recovering in hospital. According to a statement issued by her brother, Inderan Naicker, on Friday, the family is "overjoyed" that Moonsamy was found. "She is with her loved ones and beginning her road to recovery. We will share further information as the investigation is concluded. We would like to thank the Hawks for their tireless efforts, as well as the general public for keeping Sandra in their thoughts and prayers daily. We are elated and relieved to have her back with us safely." Moonsamy, a Westville mother of two and a financial director of Crossmoor Transport, was allegedly taken from her black Range Rover after allegedly being forced off the road by three vehicles on the M13 offramp on Stapleton Road in Pinetown on the evening of May 30. Moonsamy is one of two daughters of transport logistics moguls Lutchmee and Poonsamy Naicker. Mulaudzi said that shortly after her kidnapping the family received calls demanding a R140m ransom. "An intensive investigation by the Hawks task team ultimately traced and located four suspects. Two were arrested in Johannesburg. Further investigations by the team led to the arrest of two additional suspects in Emalahleni. "[Moonsamy] was found bound in chains at a house in Emalahleni and was subsequently rescued by an integrated team of the Hawks assisted by crime intelligence, Gauteng provincial organised crime members and Ekurhuleni metro police. "Three luxury vehicles worth R3m and a firearm have since been seized for further investigation," said Mulaudzi. He said the four suspects - aged between 30 and 34 - were expected to appear in the Durban magistrate's court on Monday to face charges of kidnapping. Other related charges could be added later. A source close to the investigation said the family hired a private investigator to help after ransom requests were sent to them. The only early development in the case came with the arrest of a 35-year-old Nigerian, Jerry Ogbuwany Gike, in July. The man was found in possession of one of Moonsamy's  cellphones. Gike has appeared in court on several occasions. On August 13 he was granted bail of R5,000. The matter has been postponed to December 2.