Pupils at prominent Makhanda independent school Kingswood College are speaking out on social media about their experiences of racism at school, saying school management is not doing enough to address them. Several pupils at the school say they have stayed silent for too long in the face of both overt and covert racism, xenophobia and homophobia. Now they have had enough. What triggered the outpouring of anger  is the outcome of an independent disciplinary inquiry against two teenage white pupils who accused one another of using racist language. Within a day of the allegations, school head Dr Colleen Vassiliou  convened a disciplinary hearing chaired by a black woman who was independent of the school and had extensive legal expertise. Both pupils denied the allegations they had made against each other and were exonerated as their versions were found by the presiding officer to be “mutually destructive”. Their exoneration triggered outrage among many of the pupils who felt their experiences of racism at the school were not being heard and that there were no consequences. “Welcome to my school,” said one post on social media. “The black joke has been, ‘snoobab’ (baboons spelt backwards). The black joke has been, I can’t see you in the dark ... The joke has been: ‘you’re too sensitive’ ... ‘ slavery is over’ or ‘ you weren’t there for Apartheid’. It’s been said: ‘they don’t mean it that way’. The (real) joke is even though I’m writing this, I still feel like nothing is happening.” Ironically, Vassiliou – who was appointed as head just 10 months ago – has deliberately set about opening up candid conversations about lived experiences of racism, homophobia and bullying. Within months of being appointed, she initiated a “125 days of doing things differently”, and has been outspoken about the school’s zero tolerance on these issues. “I’ve tried to open up spaces where people can talk, but it is clear some feel they are not being heard. There is a juxtaposition between having spoken about their lived experiences and the feeling that nothing is done about it,” said Vassiliou. But, in this particular case, she said she was obliged to respect the outcome of the disciplinary hearing. A 17-year-old pupil told the Dispatch that black pupils spoke out in poems, songs, essays, performances and at the school's chapel. “The matter never goes beyond conversation. We want to be taken seriously. Management is not listening to understand. They are listening to respond. It hurts me to know I still have to fight to exist in this school. The white average student has a greater sense of belonging here than us black overachievers. I know it is the same in other schools like this one.” Vassiliou believes the airing of these issues can only be a good thing, although she says social media was not the ideal platform. “We need to face these issues head on and discuss and interrogate. We must speak about racism and unconscious bias. It can only propel us forward. We are dealing with things other schools are not willing to face.” But pupils say it is not enough. “I am angry, tired and raw,” said one pupil on social media. “It’s hard to exist as a black woman. Every time we speak about our problems it feels like they don’t matter.”