Three life sentences for Uyinene Mrwetyana’s killer are not enough: only the death penalty will suffice. This was the blunt message from the family of former Kingswood College pupil Uyinene as her killer, Luyanda Botha, was sentenced in the Western Cape High Court on Friday. “These criminals don’t care about prison; it’s like a guest house to them. A death penalty will make them think twice before committing a crime,” said Mrwetyana’s uncle, Vuyisile. While Mrwetyana’s mother Nomangwana welcomed the sentence, she said nothing would bring her daughter back. “But I am grateful that justice prevailed on her behalf and my duty as a parent is to take forward her legacy and celebrate her life,” she told the Dispatch after sentencing proceedings. On Friday morning, Botha, 42, confessed to the rape and murder of the 19-year-old UCT student in August. Justice moved swiftly as he was found guilty and sentenced within hours. In an admission read by his counsel, Botha confessed that he had walked out of the post office where he worked in Claremont, Cape Town and consumed alcohol at a nearby outlet after raping and murdering Mrwetyana. “I am liable of my intentions, as I intended to rape and murder,” he said in the admission. Vuyisile said it had taken two months for Botha to be arrested and sentenced and that he was grateful as it “does not happen to other families”. In honour of the slain student, the family will be launching the Uyinene Mrwetyana Foundation at the Kingswood High Performance Centre in Makhanda on November 29. Rhodes University has also backed the initiative. Vuyisile said a scholarship would be announced to assist students who wanted to study subjects that could help in the fight against gender-based violence. The launch would be attended by United Nations Women director Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka and the Duchess of Sussex  Meghan Markle,  Rhodes University spokesperson Velisile Bukula said. Ward committee members of Khayelitsha in Cape Town, where Botha lived, have also pledged to turn his now-abandoned house into a community service centre to offer support to victims of gender-based violence. Kingswood College headmistress Dr Colleen Vassiliou also welcomed the three life sentences handed down to Botha. “As a school we are still grieving the loss. We are heartbroken for her family but we hold onto the memories of a pupil who was cheerful, passionate about life, and who believed in staying true to herself. “She stood up against any form of injustice. She is a true role model for other Kingswood pupils. She is a true role model to all young South Africans,” Vassiliou said. Mrwetyana’s grade five friend at Hudson Park Primary in East London, Jenna Kretzmann, said: “The sentence is a big one in the movement against gender-based violence. “At the same time I can’t get over this. Although I know he will spend all his life in prison, it will never bring her back and the family are heartbroken for the rest of their lives.” Kretsmann said she had played in the marimba band with Uyinene. “She was a way better musician than me but never made me feel stupid, which I really appreciated.” Botha was also given an additional five years in prison for defeating the ends of justice. He entered into a plea and sentencing agreement with the state. The state had consulted Mrwetyana’s family, the court heard. “I understand the charges,” Botha said softly when asked by judge Gayaat Salie-Hlophe if he understood the implications of the plea. —  Additional reporting by Philani Nombembe