Preparations for the funeral of AmaXhosa King Mpendulo Zwelonke Sigcawu are well under way, with the grave already dug for the Friday burial which is expected to draw more than 10,000 mourners, including monarchs and statesmen. The grave is near that of  Zwelonke's father, King Xolilizwe Sigcawu, who was buried in January 2006 along with other royals at Nqadu great place. The department of public works has begun the process of laying down new gravel on the roads that connect the site from the N2 near Walter Sisulu University's Ibika Campus near Butterworth and from the provincial tar road between Dutywa and Willowvale. Defence & military veterans minister Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula was accompanied by her husband Charles Nqakula,  chief of staff Lindile Yam, surgeon-general Zola Dabula and General Siphiwe Sangweni during a visit to Nqadu on Sunday to oversee preparations and pay their respects to the king.  ''President Cyril Ramaphosa has ordered that the military plays a pivotal role in the funeral of the king. The president has give a direction on how we should bury kings with dignity, and here we have to ensure that everything goes according to plan,'' Mapisa-Nqakula said. Four MECs, who form an appointed interministerial committee for the funeral, are also happy with the preparations. This committee and others met in Nqadu on Monday to look at  what needs to be done and what has been done, said family spokesperson Nkosi Xhanti Sigcawu. The main tent was expected to go up on Monday while everything would be in place by the close of business on  Wednesday. ''The committees are going to finalise everything. We are expecting kings from the SADC  region, former state presidents, ambassadors, businesspeople, the clergy, and our community in Nqadu and all other areas,” Sigcawu said. “We are preparing for 10,000 people. We have also planned that if the numbers are more than that we will have an overflow marquee where the funeral will be shown on a  TV screen. We want to urge people to be early as the service will start at 7am sharp so everyone should be seated by 6.30am.'' Traditional leaders have committed to donating a cow each, while others have donated groceries. ''People are trying to comfort us and take away our pain, and this is most appreciated. We understand that as the royal family we are not the only ones affected by his passing. Kings and queens from various kingdoms and the clergy, as well all people from areas ruled by the king, have been so supportive and have visited the home,'' said Sigcawu. Sigcawu said pallbearers would be both senior traditional leaders and military officers. Guest houses in Dutywa and Willowvale are reported to be  fully booked already. Idols SA season 15 winner Luyolo Yiba’s homecoming celebrations have been postponed in honour of the late king. The celebrations, in which two cows are meant to be slaughtered, were meant to take place on Monday. It has now been moved to December 1 — two days after the king’s funeral. The organisers, Clubview Residents Association (CRA), announced the postponement to the Dispatch on Monday. Last week, spokesperson Sigcawu announced that the king would be mourned for a year. He said  all celebrations, including initiations and weddings, should be postponed. CRA spokesperson Zama Dayile said: “We have decided to heed the call from the royal house and postpone the celebrations until after the funeral. However this doesn’t mean that we won’t fetch him from the airport, but we won’t be making the same noise that we will make after the funeral. The mood will be sombre  — a sign of respect to the fallen king,” said Dayile. Dayile said among dignitaries who would attend the December 1 celebrations, include Eastern Cape premier Oscar Mabuyane, sport MEC Fezeka Bayeni and Buffalo City mayor Xola Pakati. The funeral will be screened live on SABC. The official  provincial memorial service will be held  at Abbotsford Christian  Centre in East London on Wednesday, starting at  2pm.