A call by the ANC to allow jailed AbaThembu king Buyelekhaya Dalindyebo to attend late AmaXhosa King Mpendulo Zwelonke Sigcawu’s funeral has been slammed by the Congress of Traditional Leaders of South Africa (Contralesa). Contralesa says it would be an “insult” to Dalindyebo to release him for only a day, and then force him back into a prison cell. Others, including the AbaThembu royal family, joined Contralesa in dismissing the ANC's call. The AbaThembu, Contralesa and the Eastern Cape House of Traditional Leaders (ECHTL) want  Dalindyebo to released from prison for good, saying one day's grace would do nothing more than cause disruption. Contralesa president Kgoshi Mathibela Mokeona said the congress was disappointed that the call was to release Dalindyebo for the funeral only. “That is just a compromise by the ANC, it is an insult to the king. The only call that the ANC should be making is for the president to release our king,” Mokoena said. On Monday, the ANC in the Amathole region called on President Cyril Ramaphosa and  justice minister Ronald Lamola to allow Dalindyebo attend the funeral. Dalindyebo is serving a 12-year sentence in East London that began in December 2015 for arson, kidnapping, assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm and defeating the ends of justice. Ramaphosa is to deliver the eulogy at Sigcawu's funeral on Friday. Both Prince Mthunzi Ngonyama, Dalindyebo's personal spokesperson, and Nkosi Thandisizwe Mtirara, the spokesperson for Dalindyebo's son Prince Azenathi, who is acting AbaThembu king, agreed that releasing him for only a day would cause “unnecessary emotions” and “interrupt funeral proceedings”.  Mtirara added: '' The acting king wishes that Zwelibanzi (Dalindyebo's praise name) be freed and lead his people, instead of only releasing for a day. This is not in fact good for Zwelibanzi as our leader or us as his people. Zwelibanzi is our king, it does no good to be released and sent back to jail. This will degrade the dignity of our king and insult him.” Ngonyama said the king should be attending the funeral as free man, not a prisoner. “His presence in the funeral will make things worse, it will raise our emotions. To see him as a prisoner under tight security will have a psychological impact on us and will cause more damage than healing. We are not in support of this call.''    Nkosi Mwelo Nonkonyana, the chair of Contralesa and the Eastern Cape House of Traditional Leaders (ECHTL), said: ''We would love that the king be released in totality and on his release he can go to the funeral. We know how closely related the two kings are.” lulamilef@dispatch.co.za 