The first 100 subscribers will each receive a copy of Thembekwayo’s book, Business & Life Lessons from a Black Dragon (valued at R250), as well as Cohen’s book, Pitch to Win (valued at R282). “We are encouraging the Border-Kei business community to make the most of this rare opportunity for growth. Our highly respected keynote speakers will equip business owners to become corporate disrupters, while corporates will learn how to stay ahead of the game as SMMEs become fierce competitors,” said Daily Dispatch marketing manager Jennilee Peremore-Oliver. Brett St Claire, CEO of Siatek – Google’s leading Cloud partner in Africa, will also provide sought-after digital insights to thrive in a global marketplace. Esteemed local business owners from East London speaking at the summit, include Clive Berlyn, Xoliswa Tini and Natasha Hogg. Berlyn is the CEO of Caltex Eastern Cape Marketer, with an exceptional commercial flair. Tini is the founder of Xoliswa Tini Properties and known as one of East London’s real estate moguls, while Hogg is one of the city’s most successful restaurateurs who managed three of East London’s most popular eateries. They will all be interviewed by summit facilitator Siki Mgabadeli – a freelance financial and current affairs journalist in SA. “We have brought together the best business thinkers to the Eastern Cape to inspire innovation and business growth by delivering personal and professional insights that will give business owners a competitive edge in today’s global marketplace,” said Peremore-Oliver. The early bird special, which ran from May 20 to June 7 and where tickets could be purchased for a discounted rate, has been extended to June 12. Tickets are being sold at R3,250 per person or R31,000 per group of 10 until Wednesday. The normal rates of R3,400 per person or R32,500 per group of 10 will apply thereafter. The price of the ticket includes a goodie bag and a full day conference package, which includes arrival tea, mid-morning tea, lunch and a networking cocktail after the summit. There are also exhibition opportunities available. To book your ticket or for more information visit www.dispatchsummit.co.za. Follow the Daily Dispatch Business Summit on Facebook and Twitter, or for further queries contact Laura-Lee Rulf on 043- 702-2090 or email LauraR@dispatch.co.za