An Eastern Cape woman who confessed that she hired two men to kill her estranged husband in 2017, walked out of the Bhisho High Court a free woman last week. Busiswa Nabi, 43, of Mdantsane, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit murder, was slapped with a four-year jail sentence. However, it was wholly suspended for five years on condition that she did not commit the same offence within that period, and that she turned state witness. Nabi was arrested by the Hawks in November 2017 with co-accused Nomqondiso Tembu, 50, and alleged hitman Simphiwe Mninawa Wili, 47, of Cape Town. Tembu’s husband, Vusumzi Tembu, a general worker at the Mdantsane magistrate’s court, was killed, allegedly by Wili, outside the Sisa Dukashe Stadium in Mdantsane on February 14 2017. It happened just moments after he had watched Chippa United play Mamelodi Sundowns. The fee was R100,000, according to the Hawks. Tembu was arrested after a tip-off. At the time, there was speculation that Vusumzi had been hit by a stray bullet while leaving the stadium. Last week, Nabi turned state witness and, through her plea statement submitted to court, implicated Tembu and Wili in the conspiracy to have Vusumzi killed on Valentine’s Day. The plea bargain was confirmed on Friday by Nabi’s lawyer Mark Fredericks. In her plea statement, Nabi claims that Tembu was involved in her husband’s killing. Nabi told the high court that after being introduced to Wili, apparently by Tembu, she fell in love with him and moved with him to Cape Town, where her husband’s murder was planned. In her affidavit, Nabi said the plans to have her husband killed were made between May and October 2017. “Nomqondiso Tembu introduced me to one Simphiwe Wili, who accepted and agreed to my proposal to have my husband killed. “I was however arrested before any real attempt to kill my husband took place. My husband was not harmed in any way during the process,” Nabi told the high court. Wili and Tembu’s trial is still ongoing and Nabi is expected to take the stand as a state witness early this week. Wili and Tembu’s defence advocate, Mike Maseti, was unfazed by Nabi’s confession on Friday. “We really feel her plea statement does not possess any threat to our case,” he said. The trial continues on Monday. asandan@dispatch.co.za