Classes at WSU’s Potsdam campus were disrupted on Monday over issues with accommodation and allowances. Meanwhile, students at the WSU Ibika campus in Butterworth returned to class. University spokesperson Yonela Tukwayo said: “We reached an agreement, hence we were able to open the [Ibika] campus,” she said. Tukwayo said WSU staff were trying to resolve issues around privately owned student accommodation. “On the issue of enrolling fashion students onto the PGCE [postgraduate certificate in education] programme, students understood that we cannot deviate from the set rules. “However, we have indicated that those students can apply for other postgraduate programmes at WSU if they qualify,” she said. Ibika SRC president Lihle Klaas said they agreed to return to classes after the management agreed to address their issues. Students had boycotted classes since February 21, demanding another round of inspection of privately owned accommodation and a maintenance check of all campus residences. Students were instructed to go home during the boycott. On Monday, Klaas said: “They [WSU] explained the issue of the registration of fashion students and we understood it. Regarding the issue of reinspection of privately owned residences, we agreed that the process will start on Tuesday.” Klaas added the management agreed to do maintenance on all campus residences. At the Potsdam Buffalo City campus, a group of B-Tech students demonstrated and disrupted classes. They claimed the SRC promised them accommodation because the National Student Financial Aid Scheme did not fund postgraduate students. A student who wanted to remain anonymous, said: “We were shocked to learn that out of more than 200 students, only 60 were given accommodation and we do not know what criteria were used. “We were only told there was not enough money to accommodate everyone.” Another student said she was staying in Mdantsane and her classes ran from 5pm until 8pm, when there was no transport. Buffalo City Campus SRC secretary Samkele Mqai denied promising accommodation to anyone. Tukwayo said the disruptions at Potsdam campus were resolved quickly. “Right now operations are normal at all WSU sites in East London.”