Endumisweni Faith Mission Church leader Tsidi Spampool is living in fear after Mdantsane residents allegedly threatened her following media reports on allegations of abuse and sexual harassment at the church’s NU8 premises. The gospel singer and the church, which has been described as a cult by former members and the SA Council of Churches, made national headlines in January when a video of her assaulting two young women with a water pipe went viral. Harrowing stories of how former congregants were allegedly assaulted, had potential husbands chosen for them and were defrauded of thousands of rands also surfaced. Spampool admitted assaulting the two women in the video, saying she was using the church’s constitution to “discipline” them. Speaking to the Dispatch, Spampool said daily threats were made against her around Mdantsane. She is due in the Mdantsane magistrate’s court soon on charges of assaulting two boys. She pleaded with people to allow the law to take its course. “I feel like I am not safe and the children’s lives from our church are in danger [because] when people see me inside a car they call out my name and threaten me. “Some people have been coming to take pictures of my house and mocking us on social media. When my child went for a checkup at the hospital he was ridiculed,” she said. “He was scared because he did not know what would have happened to him. “One of the children in high school is being mocked and this makes the children not cope well at school.” Spampool said she had not been found guilty of anything. “It is hard to walk around freely like everyone else, (it’s) as if I have killed someone. I can’t even go and fetch my treatment from hospital without people hurling insults at me. “This is all done to destroy me. People have been posting my pictures on Facebook. One guy said he will come and rape me. Some people have been saying they will close the church,” she said. In a new twist, Spampool claims the video of her beating the two women, who have since left the church, was edited. “That video that was posted on social media is not the original. I did not beat the children like that. The allegations against me are not true. I have never slept with any of the girls here.” She said the matter was reported to the Mdantsane police on Monday. “The station commander and investigating officer called me to make a statement. I told them about the threats that are made against me and the church and they said they would send a van to patrol around our church during our services.” However, police spokesperson Captain Mluleki Mbi said a case of assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm was opened against Spampool on Tuesday. “The investigation officer had an appointment with Tsidi Spampool on Tuesday in Mdantsane with the aim of charging her on assault of two young boys. She was warned to appear before the Mdantsane magistrate’s court. The officer has no knowledge of the promises of patrols,” he said. Despite a social media backlash and calls to close the church, Spampool said it had gained more members and would continue “helping people” to find their love mates as she receives “revelation from God”. “This has all been a plot to taint my image. We also have new members who say that this God will save them.” Social development MEC Phumza Dyantyi previously said they were investigating the church, but her spokesperson, Mzukisi Solani, did not respond to questions.