King Hintsa TVET College management has come under fire after it allegedly outsourced its supply chain functions to another organisation without following proper processes. It is claimed the Butterworth-based college sought the services of a purchasing organisation called Purco to “assist” with its supply chain process. This included the provision of a database of suppliers and capacitating of its functions. It is alleged not all was above board with the outsourcing process, but the college has denied this. Purco is an organisation which is made up of members of higher education institutions including TVET colleges and universities. After a public complaint about the processes followed for the appointment of the company, national Treasury directed the director-general of the department of higher education and training, Gwebinkundla Qonde, to initiate an investigation on January 5. In a letter to Qonde, seen by the Dispatch, national Treasury also requests Qonde to probe Purco’s involvement in another college, Mnambithi TVET College in KwaZulu-Natal. The letter raises major concerns over the purchasing company’s appointment at the two colleges. “It is not clear what procurement process was followed in appointing this company. “The unintended consequences thereof are that the supply chain management personnel of the college would not be optimally utilised and they may find themselves rubberstamping the recommendations of Purco,” the letter reads. But King Hintsa TVET College principal Noluthando Balfour denied that the college outsourced its supply chain functions to Purco. “We have an agreement of collaboration with Purco. We are tapping into their expertise in terms of making sure that our supply chain processes are risk-free. “There is no manipulation in that processes which is done by the company,” she said. Purco chief executive Selvan Govender said the organisation was a non-profit organisation. It was established by universities to assist the institutions with supply chain and other functions. “We provide additional resources that we add to the capacity of universities and colleges. We are there to complement the activity of a college not to take the job of anyone,” he said. Govender said that he was not aware of the investigation by Qonde’s department. “I thought it was just a request for information,” he said. Qonde has completed his investigation and the report with findings and recommendations is expected to be submitted to the national Treasury. “The department is busy compiling a response to national Treasury and cannot comment on the questions raised by the media before formal communication has been issued to national Treasury,” said higher education and training spokesperson Lunga Ngqengelele. Explaining the role played by the purchasing company, Ngqengelele said the company had two service offerings: to provide their database of suppliers to clients offering a rebate, and to assist clients to capacitate their supply chain management functions to fulfil functions such as the bid committees. The department would not support the first option as it was not allowing a “fair and equitable procurement process as some potential contractors might be excluded who are not willing to provide a rebate to the company”. It has further emerged that the college allegedly appointed a security company without following proper supply chain management regulations. The initial three-year contract the institution had with another company lapsed in January and, after its evaluation and adjudication processes to appoint a new company was delayed, the college called for three quotations for another company to take over on a monthly basis, without going out to tender. Balfour confirmed that the security contract did not go out to tender. “Our supply chain has a process of identifying suppliers,” Balfour said. Asked how this process was done without prejudice to other suppliers, she refused to provide an answer.