President Cyril Ramaphosa's spokesperson, Khusela Diko, has had her hands full in the past 24 hours setting the record straight on Andile Ramaphosa's dealings with controversial company African Global Operations, formerly known as Bosasa. This came after former Bosasa auditor Peet Venter disclosed before the state capture commission on Tuesday that  R500,000 was allegedly paid into Ramaphosa jnr's account by Bosasa. Besides issuing a lengthy statement on the allegations, Diko spoke to eNCA and Radio 702 about the claims. Here's what she said: There are no claims of illegal activity "There are no allegations of any illegal activity, either by the president or Andile Ramaphosa. "Secondly, there is nothing that came out in the Zondo commission yesterday which is not already in the public domain. Where this matter initially surfaced was in parliament, where the leader of the Democratic Alliance was waving an affidavit by Mr Venter. "The president answered to say yes, indeed, he is aware that there is a contract that exists between Andile, as well as African Global Operations." R500,000 payment "The R500,000 is a totally separate matter which was paid into the CR17 campaign, and through that account, EFG2, which is a trust account which belongs to the attorney that was managing on behalf of the campaign." Andile Ramaphosa has no foundation "Andile Ramaphosa, to the best of our knowledge and according to the information we have, has no foundation. He has no trust account. President Ramaphosa was in the dark about donors "The president was unaware of the payments. The reason why the president was unaware of the payments was that the campaign managers had taken a decision right when they started the campaign that they would not inform the president on the funds that they raised, who the donors are and the amount that they pledged." The money will be returned "The money is sitting in a trust account while we're awaiting the finalisation of all investigations relating to this matter. As you know, the leader of the opposition would have gone to the office of the public protector to say that she [public protector] believes that perhaps the president would have violated the executive ethics code, or anything that needs to be investigated in that regard. "So, it has been put in that trust account until those issues have been sorted and finalised, and it will be returned."