The Eastern Cape department of transport has moved to clear up confusion over licence renewals in the province. Thousands of motorists are at their wit’s end over lengthy delays and being told to resubmit photographs and fingerprints at licensing centres. In January, transport minister Blade Nzimande revealed that the national department had a backlog of 324,000 driving licence cards still to be printed following delays because of a strike last year. He said between July and December, the department had received more than a million card orders but had only printed some 700,000 cards. This stemmed from a dispute with transport employees contracted to the Driving Licence Card Account (DLCA). The Eastern Cape has not been spared the fall-out of the strike. However, the provincial transport department spokesperson Unathi Binqose, said the situation was now being handled with the assistance of the Road Traffic Management Corporation. “A provision has been made to ensure that those affected are able to get a temporary licence without any charge. “We are working around the clock to ensure that we clear the backlog that we face now that the strike is over.” East London residents have taken to social media to vent their frustrations. The problem appears to be mostly affecting those motorists who applied for licence renewals from June. On prominent Facebook group, “Fix Our Broken City (East London)”, a man told how he had applied for a licence renewal at the BCM traffic department in September and was repeatedly told licences had not arrived yet in follow-up queries. Officials at the the Braelyn traffic department allegedly then told him he had to have his photograph and fingerprints redone because all applications between June and October had been rejected. A woman had received a call from the Wilsonia traffic department and the same message had been conveyed. However, another woman said she had encountered an official at the Braelyn department who was specifically working on fingerprints, photographs and re-submissions of applications. Asked whether what was happening in East London was occurring nationally, national transport department spokesperson Motlatsi Lebea said the Dispatch’s query was noted as the department would reply “as urgently as we can”. No response was received.