Tiso Blackstar Group multimedia content producer Anthony Molyneaux says winning the Online News Video category at the 11th IAB Bookmark Awards brought several emotions, from jubilation to sadness. Molyneaux was honoured at the awards, held in Johannesburg on Thursday evening, for his video titled Mapping the Murder of Hannah Cornelius. The piece used several visual tools, including CCTV footage, maps and graphics, to give audiences an in-depth view of the 2017 murder of the Stellenbosch student. Molyneaux said while he was honoured to have won the award, it was still a strange feeling to have received an accolade for such  a tragic story. "The feeling is quite mixed. Obviously it is great to earn recognition from my peers and the judges, in them thinking it was an important piece for the media industry, especially digital. It is great to know that you are on the right track. The other side is that it is about the death of a student and it is a bit weird to win an award for something so tragic." He said he was drawn to the case because he felt there wasn't enough attention paid to  it. "The whole reason I did the piece was to try to get people's attention to the case because I feel there was not enough attention on her murder and the people behind it. Winning an award for it means that more people are aware of it." Molyneaux said he used CCTV footage and testimony to try to weave together a narrative that people could easily navigate. "I lived in Stellenbosch for a while, but I wanted to know the exact roads she travelled and where she ended up. I realised that I could try to show it in a map form, with all these other elements, and give them a full understanding, without just reading it in text." Tiso Blackstar Group brands SowetanLIVE, TimesLIVE and Times Select were also finalists at the awards in the following categories: News Innovation: Times Select Publisher Sites: Times Select, SowetanLIVE Tiso Blackstar Group publishes Sowetan, Sunday World, Business Day, Sunday Times and TimesLIVE.