The R20m Linda Dweba Library, which will serve 25 schools in and around Ngqeleni, will focus on promoting indigenous languages. The library already has a collection of Xhosa books that tell the stories of political heroes and general folklore. Dweba was a teacher by profession. He was a political activist who served in structures such as the Ngqeleni national education co-ordinating committee, the South African National Civic Organisation and the SACP. He was instrumental in the formation and development of the SA Democratic Teachers’ Union and the first ANC branch in Ngqeleni following the unbanning of political organisations in 1990. The library was a project of the department of sports, recreation, arts and culture (DSRAC) in partnership with OR Tambo municipality and Nyandeni municipality. The handover formed part of the broader commemoration of Human Rights Month, under the theme: “The Year of Indigenous Languages: Promoting and Deepening a Human Rights Culture.” Luyolo Matabeni from the Library and Information Association of SA said it was part of their goal for libraries and other cultural institutions to store and buy indigenous languages books. “English is becoming the main language, so we are obliged to create spaces for children to learn their own language and to cultivate the culture of learning in your own language which contributes to the preservation of our cultures,” said Matabeni. He said that libraries were important and what happened to such structures was up to the community, who had to assist to grow the collection because they knew what books were needed most by their communities. Other people who attended the event included DSRAC MEC Bulelwa Tunyiswa and the Dweba family. Former Generations: The Legacy actress Andisiwe Dweba, who is a niece to Dweba, also attended.. “The existence of this facility and its resources for the benefit of this community is one of many steps forward taken by government to redress the imbalances of the past and bridge the gap between the rich and the poor,” said Tunyiswa. Dweba’s friend, Masiza Mazizi, said the political activist had done much for his people , including building a creche. He also put many struggling children through school. ziphon@dispatch.co.za