The profile of the campaign to close East London zoo has been raised by world-renowned conservationist and documentary filmmaker John Varty playing a series of concerts in the city this week, but BCM has implored the public to get a first-hand experience of the facility in order to be better informed. East London Zoo has come under fire from political and civil groups insisting conditions are unacceptable and the animals’ enclosures are too small. Varty and his band, the Wildlife Warriors, arrived in the city at the weekend and have linked up rights group Ban Animal Trading (BAT) and a group of Khoisan activists, led by MP Christian Martin, who have been protesting at Retail Park in Beacon Bay by way of living and sleeping in a cage set up in the food court. On Wednesday, the municipality said it welcomed all organisations that sought to advance the well-being of animals and the improvement of the zoo. “We believe that there is room to strengthen relations and work hard to ensure that the interests of our broader society are all taken into account, especially our environment and animals,” said BCM spokesperson Samkelo Ngwenya. But BCM also moved to clarify steps taken to improve the zoo. BCM’s medium-term adjustment budget, approved by council last week, shows that money to be spent on upgrading of the predator enclosure was increased from R250,000 to R750,000. Where no money was previously allocated to upgrading enclosure features, an amount of R300,000 is now reflected in the adjustment budget. “The city has in the last two years put in place a zoo operational plan to improve the operational standards to a point where we can meet our national set standards. We are working closely with the environmental affairs department and all organisations whose mandate is to rightfully hold us accountable,” Ngwenya said. BCM had also started specific conservation programmes and improved its education programmes in terms of signage and educating the public, in particular children, he said. “We have also put in place a zoo collection plan, which identifies correctly the type of animals that should or shouldn’t be in our type of zoo. It is that plan that has enabled us to resolve that species like the vulture do not thrive in our coastal forest area. We are undergoing a process of transferring this animal to a national facility.” More than R1m had been invested in the fencing of the facility as well as zoo maintenance. Activists have slammed the jaguar’s enclosure, but Ngwenya pointed out that the animal was a hand-raised captive bred animal which was closely linked to people as part of its welfare. “The jaguar’s enclosure is not inadequate in terms of compromising its health. However, we do have plans which we have already started with towards enlarging the enclosure to suit both the jaguar, plus optimise educational opportunities, especially for our thousands of visitors, who come from all over our province. “In terms of the brown bear, the enclosure is of adequate size and standard. For its old age, it is in good health. Enrichment and monitoring of its well-being is a daily activity that we are undertaking. We call upon the general public to take the opportunity to visit this facility and get a first-hand experience in order to be better informed.” johnh@dispatch.co.za