Five youth-led businesses received a boost with equipment donated to them by premier Phumulo Masualle. The youth projects range from vegetable cropping to multimedia and events co-ordinating. Siyabonga Gwam of Umnqophiso Agricultural Ltd said they had received a R84,000 solar water pump, which would assist with irrigation. “Water scarcity is a real issue and often we have crops die, meaning a loss of income. This pump will allow us now to boost our production quantity. We’ve always wanted to buy this pump ourselves, but it was too expensive,” said Gwam. They also received farming equipment such as shovels and seedlings. He said they grow cabbage, potatoes, spinach and onions and that they supply their community in Bedford and spaza shops. Lebohang Motlhabane, from Lerato Group, which specialises in content production and software development, said they had a shortage of equipment and that often affected the quality of their productions. The premier gave them laptops, cameras, a flash disk, a lighting kit and a computer monitor. “We will now be able to produce quality content and we will be able to expand our work and maybe get into streaming where we can produce live content,” said Mothlabane. Other recipients included Fiola Multimedia, an internet café and events company in Centane and Butterworth. They received sound equipment, including full range speakers and cables. Bomela Agricultural Group, a vegetable production project in Bomela Location in Mbhashe, received farming equipment and inputs. Ntinga Nje Ngokhozi Co-operative project, which specialises in fencing in Jojweni location, received fencing material and protective wear. The premier said the donations were part of the provincial government’s youth development strategy initiative that seeks to support youth enterprise as part of stimulating the socio-economic activity in the province. “It is also aimed at providing non-financial support that will assist in empowering and sustaining these youth projects, as well as expose and create awareness for the projects within their communities,” said Masualle. He said the government had a responsibility to provide services to communities, but that people also had a responsibility to create their own job opportunities, and such initiatives had to be applauded. ziphon@dispatch.co.za