Some East London students have to fetch water from a nearby informal settlement and when there is no electricity, they have to collect wood for cooking. They also live crammed into small rooms. Pigs kept at Umso College in East London have also not been spared, as the college has run out of food for the starving animals. Some students have also complained of going for months without being paid their R1,500 stipend. The college is funded by the department of higher education and the National Skills Fund. The department’s spokesperson, Lunga Ngqengelele, had not responded to questions sent to him at the time of writing on Monday. But college CEO Thabisa Nodada admitted that the living conditions were not ideal for students and that they were struggling to feed the pigs. On a visit to the college in Santa, outside East London, the Daily Dispatch was shown the students’ appalling living conditions. Students interviewed said some of their peers had left because of the unbearable conditions. Because the college regularly runs out of water, they had to fetch water from Newtown informal settlement and when there was no electricity, they had to collect wood from a nearby forest for cooking, they said. The pigs are used for study purposes. One of the students responsible for feeding the starving pigs, told the Dispatch that she herself was starving. “I am hungry as I am talking to you. “Before we cook we have to go fetch water [from Newtown], then come back and fetch firewood to make fire,” she said. The students did not want to be named for fear of victimisation. The Dispatch also discovered that at least 12 students were sharing six single beds. Students also claimed they were not getting paid their stipend. “The conditions we live under are unhealthy and not good and we go for months without being paid,” said a student. Nodada said the reason some students had not been paid their stipends was because they had submitted invalid banking details. Commenting on the poor state of their accommodation, Nodada initially said accommodating the students was not the college’s responsibility. “We are not given a cent for accommodation and they [students] are not charged a single cent for staying here. “Students are supposed to get their own accommodation. “Knowing some of them are battling in getting accommodation and had to start with classes, we then recommended to temporarily provide them with accommodation. “This was made very clear, that the arrangement was temporary,” she said. She later said the accommodation was for students who were on the skills programme as they received a stipend of R500. Students on learnerships receive a stipend of R1,500. “I am on record saying the accommodation is strictly for those students coming from far places, who are getting a R500 stipend,” she said. Nodada said the stipends were in accordance with the National Skills Fund policy. She said those accommodated at the centre were on the skills programme as they could not afford to pay rent elsewhere. Nodada admitted that there was no water in the facility. “There is no water here. There were reservoirs, but they dried up,” she said. Nodada said they had made arrangements to buy water, “but because there are more students who are staying here, it gets finished before time”. Students said living at the college was a daily struggle. “It is a real struggle. “Every day we have to fetch water from the informal settlement,” said a student. Another student said she was shocked to the discover the poor living conditions when she first arrived. She said two of her friends had since left. “They could not cope with these conditions,” she said. Commenting on the starving pigs, Nodada said an arrangement had been made with farms around the college to supply the animals with food.