Mthatha teen Inga Mfono is in the running to win two categories in the upcoming Eastern Cape Music Awards. Inga, a Grade 12 pupil who started singing in church at the age of four, released his debut album, Inyaniso, in September last year, and is now vying for the titles of best newcomer and best afro pop artist at the awards. His song Livumile iCamagu propelled the 17-year-old to greater heights, and his achievements have been made all the more special in that he single-handedly arranged, composed and recorded all the music in a makeshift studio inside a back-room flat at his home in Mandela Park informal settlement in November 2017. In June, he was signed by Wisdom Entertainment, a recording company based in Johannesburg. Inga believes that were he to win the best afro pop category at the December awards, where he will be competing against veterans of the music industry, the sky could very well be the limit. “That is good for my profile as an artist. That’s a 100% achievement,” said Inga, who is also a self-taught guitarist, drummer and marimba player. “Winning the awards would mean a great deal. That would build the Inga brand. If it was possible for me to be a nominee, then winning is possible with the support that I have.” Inga, who has just finished writing his trial examinations, manages to balance studying and music with aplomb. “It’s quite a norm for me. I know how to make time and fully dedicate myself to one thing at a time. It’s knowing my obligations. It’s not easy, but with time management, it’s doable.” School and music are equally important in his life, and some universities have already agreed to accept him. “Music is sustainable but not stable. With a degree I have a Plan B. I’m sorted academically.” He urged other young people who want to venture into the entertainment industry to also prioritise education. Inga’s aim is to build his brand until it is strong enough to break into the mainstream at a national level. “Music needs consistency. I don’t want to be a one-hit wonder. To avoid that, I have to be consistent and ensure that I deliver music as good as the first single. It’s about how I tell a story that people will relate to.”