“She is a bundle of love. That’s what she is.” That’s how Tharina Human’s father Riaan Botha described her after the first day of her bail application in the Vanderbijlpark Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. Human, 27, and her co-accused Leatitia Nel, 40, and Pieter van Zyl, 50, stand accused of kidnapping Amy’Leigh de Jager outside the Kollege Laerskool on September 2. Botha said since her arrest, the family was missing her extremely. “I am very proud of her and love her dearly. I stand by her. I know in whom I trust and I know in who I believe in and I know He [God] is able to pull us through this,” the emotional Botha said. Botha described the first day of the bail application as tough, adding that he would not comment on the matter further. Earlier on Thursday, the state called their first witness to the stand – Constable Clayton Motloung – a police officer who had 10-years’ experience. Motloung was attached to the child protection unit. During his first hour of his testimony, he said a female state witness, who was close to Human, had initially also been involved in the kidnapping plot, would testify at a later stage. “It was four of them, the initial plan was to kidnap accused one [Human] by accused two [Nel] and accused 3 [van Zyl] so that the family of accused one [Human] could come and bail her out.” Motloung said Human then changed to plan and opted for someone in her family – someone very close to her father with the idea of her brother paying the ransom for the release. Throughout his testimony, Human sat in the dock with her head low. She had a grim smile on her face and often shook her head at some parts of Motloung’s testimony. When their kidnapping plans failed, they met on September 1 and opted to kidnap 6-year-old Amy’Leigh de Jager. According to him, Human apparently told the group that there was a child in her class whose family were “very rich”. He said at the time of the kidnapping on September 2, an unknown African male came from behind and grabbed the five year old boy, but later let him go. He then grabbed the 6-year-old Amy’Leigh and ran to the white Toyota Fortuner. An hour after the kidnapping at around 09:17am, her father Wynand received a call from an unknown number. “It was an African male on the other side of the call and he demanded a R2m ransom for the release of the child.” Police traced the call to a location about 15km from Vanderbijlpark - towards the direction of Sebokeng. They still couldn’t find the Fortuner. He said they managed to obtain phone records and the number used to phone the father had also previously made contact with a cell number which they traced to a plot outside Vanderbijlpark. Police arrived on the plot and found a woman who was closely related to Human. “She told us three days before she received a call from the same number, the ransom phone number. That person portrayed himself as a principal of the child. It was found that the cell phone had been used by Nel in the past. Police went to the house of Nel and found all three present at the house - after 11pm that evening. Motloung said when they arrived at the station after 1am on Tuesday; a couple had brought Amy’Leigh in. He said new cell phone records led them back to the house of Nel. “When we arrived there we asked her the same question we asked on Monday night. Accused 2 [Nel] informed us that she was involved in the commission of this offence. She informed us that it was not our idea, it was the idea of accused 1 [Human].” She was arrested and later mentioned that van Zyl, who lived in the same street as her, had also been part of the crime. When police arrived at his house, there was an African male inside of the house, but he fled, Motloung said. Inside the house police recovered a firearm. Nel then led the police to the house of Human who was with her 8-year-old daughter at the time. “She informed the police that she owed a Nigerian a lot of money. That Nigerian man told her that he could make a lot of money from her daughter. She needed money to bail out her daughter – that’s why she planned the kidnapping.” During cross examination by lawyer David May for Human, Motloung said that should Human be released on bail, she would evade trial and influence witnesses. Motloung said her child would not deter her from fleeing. “There is nothing stopping accused 1[Human]. She doesn’t have property and her child is taken well care off. They are facing very serious charges. In some cases we have struggled to re-arrest people who have faced similar charges and fled. May argued that not many kidnapping cases were reported in the jurisdiction of Vanderbijlpark. However, Motloung disagreed, saying that there had been many women and children kidnapped and raped in the jurisdiction of Vanderbijlpark. He further testified that despite Amy’Leigh not being harmed during her kidnapping, she was dropped off in a “very dangerous” place. He said Amy’Leigh was not well looked after. “It is a place where a human being or animal would survive in that small place. She was not well looked after at all.” He did not go into further detail into the place where she was kept, saying it would be revealed during trial. The matter is set to continue on Friday.