Climate crisis has been linked to a spike in number of snakes being seen in the East London area and surroundings. Experts said the extreme heat and water shortage had combined to create more reptiles all migrating to dwindling water sources. Juan Marillier, a curator at Venom Pit Snake Park outside East London, said the early arrival of summer had led to a plethora of calls to rescue a large number of snakes around the city compared to previous years. Two weeks ago he rescued and relocated 10 dangerous snakes from homes in Vincent, Berea, Nahoon, Stirling, Gonubie and Dorchester Heights. “Snakes are on the move now because it’s their breeding season, so a large number of male snakes are looking for females to breed with,” said Marillier. Marillier said a number of dangerously venomous snakes such as the Rinkhals, puffadder, boomslang, Rhombic night adder and Natal black snake were very common around East London. He said the Rinkhals was common in outer lying areas around East London, such as farming areas, East Coast resorts, and west of the East London Airport. Others constantly found around town were the less dangerous or even harmless snakes such as the spotted Harlequin snake, Skaapsteker, red-lipped Herald, and Western Natal green snake. Two spotted bush snakes were found this week inside premier Oscar Mabuyane’s Bhisho office, and a snake catcher had to be summoned to remove them. Marillier said a number of snake bites had been reported in the East London area. “Most bites are from Rhombic night adders, by far the most venomous snake in East London. There have been numerous fatalities of dogs.” Marillier said: “It’s about time people become aware that we do live with these creatures in our neighbourhoods. “Us, human beings, have encroached on their natural habitat. They have been forced to survive in very hostile areas, but have done well in adopting to urbanisation. “Most of them are harmless and go unnoticed because they are shy and secretive creatures that prefer to be left alone. “However, when one shows up, it creates all sorts of panic. Snakes have always been here, but prefer to move around at night, because there are less predators around and a lot of prey out and about.” Snakes play a vital role in nature, and killing them was wrong, foolish and illegal. “They control the rodent population in nature. They do play a very vital role.” Trying to kill a snake was ridiculous, as a snake fearing it was about to be killed could strike faster than a human wielding a weapon. “Rather leave it alone. Give it space, as it must not feel threatened. Make sure no children and pets are around. “No snake is going to chase anybody. They don’t harm people. They don’t drop from trees to bite people. They avoid confrontation at all costs. “Even highly venomous snakes will bite out of defence. Most times they don’t release venom, but bite to scare you away. “They will rather not waste that venom because it’s a precious commodity to them. They do not go out to hunt and bite people, but if it’s frightened, it will react.” Marillier said rain during drought brought out snakes to hunt more abundant prey. If bitten, get the person to hospital quickly. “Don’t waste time. Remain calm. Don’t administer any kind of medication or alcohol, and don’t apply any tourniquet.” Kevin Cole, a principal East London Museum natural scientist, on Friday said studies were showing that a rise in the snake population was in keeping with international studies about the impact of climate change.