Buffalo City Metro is officially looking for a new chief financial officer following the axing of Vincent Pillay, who was implicated in the Nelson Mandela funeral scandal. The search comes after the council last week approved the advertisement of the vacant post and the process plan to be followed to fill the position. According to a confidential report seen by the Dispatch, the post will be advertised this week. BCM mayor Xola Pakati confirmed the search for the new CFO. He said there was no court order against the city barring them from doing so. This comes as Pillay has served Pakati, speaker Alfred Mtsi, city manager Andile Sihlahla and the institution, BCM, with a notice of motion last week with an intention to interdict his axing. He will make an application to the Grahamstown high court next month and has also lodged an appeal with the SA local government bargaining council as he fights for the position. Pillay wants city bosses to be interdicted and restrained from implementing what he calls the “purported cancellation” of his employment contract. He also wants to be paid a full salary from February. “On the 27 February 2019, I was informed by a councillor that there was an item on my disciplinary case in the council agenda. In response, my attorneys caused a letter to be forwarded to the respondents requesting that they do not consider the item on my disciplinary matter as I had not been furnished with a copy of the sanction as per regulation 12,” said Pillay in his affidavit. “I made investigations arising from certain media reports, from which it was apparent that the council was not [sic] quorate when it passed the resolution, confirming the findings of the presiding officer…in order to have a quorum BCM must have 51 councillors present. “On the day in question when the item on the termination of services was tabled, there were only 45 councillors,” he said, adding that the decision taken was “irregular and null and void”. Mtsi confirmed the receipt of the notice of motion. He said the metro’s legal team was dealing with the matter. “By the time the decision was taken to fire Mr Pillay, we were quorating as the council,” he said.