The Stutterheim community is still trying to come to terms with the slaying of well-known businessman Gagik Ovsepian in the early hours of Saturday. Ovsepian, 56,  owner of fast-food outlet Southern Fried Chicken, was gunned down by three men in front of his wife at their Xolora village home. His wife was unharmed. Provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana said Ovsepian, whose Facebook page states he was from Armenia, died on the scene. Kinana said three men entered the house at about 3am while the couple were sleep in their bedroom on the second floor of the house. As soon as they woke, the men demanded money from them. Kinana said the men had gained  access through an open window. “They shot him and took the keys of his silver Mercedes-Benz before fleeing the scene in the vehicle. “They also took  jewellery and two cellphones,” he said. Kinana said the vehicle was later found abandoned on the N6. No arrests had been made, Kinana said. According to an employee at a local security company, who spoke to the Dispatch on condition of anonymity, he had responded to an alarm set off by  Ovsepian’s neighbours. “When I arrived at his neighbour’s house, they told me the shooting was happening next door,” he said. “When I went to investigate, I found him lying in a pool of blood. “I was not sure whether he was still alive. “I immediately called the ambulance and the police,” he said. The killing has sent shock waves through the town, particularly as Ovsepian was known by many people. His friend of more than 15 years, Stephan Kumm, described Ovsepian as a humble and genuine person. “We are still shocked at the ruthless manner in which he lost his life,” Kumm said. He said Ovsepian was loved by many because of his kindness and humility. “It still difficult to believe he is no more,” he said. Local PR  councillor Richard Pickering said Ovsepian had played a big role in developing the economy of the town. “We are very sad. He was a good person and did not deserve to die like this,” he said, adding Ovsepian had the best interests of his community at heart. “We are very saddened. I can’t imagine how his family are coping.” Kinana said a case of murder and house robbery were being investigated by Stutterheim police. As news of the slaying spread, tributes started to pour in on social media. “I have known Gagik since late 90s, what a pleasant person to be around. I am terribly saddened by his cruel death. May his soul RIP,”  one person said on Facebook.