Several roads in East London will be closed due to New Year’s celebrations in expectation of  high numbers of beachgoers descending  on Buffalo City Metro’s  beaches from Monday into the new year. BCM  spokesperson Samkelo Ngwenya said roads would  be closed in Quigney, Nahoon, Beacon Bay and Gonubie. Quigney ward councillor Vusumzi Njece said increased visibility of law enforcement officials was  needed to control revellers and ensure residents’ safety. He said roads would be closed at 1pm on Monday at  Inverleith Terrace on the Esplanade, at the intersections of  Cadwallan Road and  Aquarium Road, Longfellow Street and Marine Terrace, Moore Street at Marine Terrace, Buffalo Park Drive at John Bailie Road, McJannet Drive and John Bailie Road, Link Road and Marina Glen, and Moore Street and Fitzpatrick Road. Previous years have seen the closure of a large part of the Quigney with access controlled into the cordoned-off areas via control points. Ngwenya  said the area from the East London Aquarium to hangout spot Ebuhlanti (Marina Glen) including Moore Street to the Holiday Inn and the traffic circle at John Bailie Road would  be a traffic-free zone. Access to Ebuhlanti would  be via Buffalo Park Drive and John Bailie into Link Road. Njece said: “The decision was taken after council realised what has happened in the previous years. “We identified those streets because, in the past, people drink and drive in those areas.” He said the metro was trying to curb drunk driving  along the coast during the festive season. “Quigney is a place where many people want to go for entertainment during the big days. “Traffic officers will be deployed to those areas. “Children also need to be safe from drunk drivers. “We have planned well. Our cameras are working and everything is in order. “We are hoping to do better than in previous years.” He said parking would be available at Ebuhlanti, the old caravan park next to the cemetery, Border cricket grounds next to the B field, and the Orient Theatre. Court Crescent and Cadwallan Road were reserved for emergency vehicles only. He said taxis would be able to drop passengers off at Buffalo Park Drive and Moore Street, and pick them up at Court Crescent. Buses would drop and pick up passengers at Buffalo Park Drive. Ngwenya said certain roads would  be closed in Nahoon, Beacon Bay and Gonubie. “Any vehicles found to be causing obstructions or parked in residents’ driveways will be towed away. “Strict law enforcement will be exercised against offenders.” He said the closures would  remain in place until  January 2  or as decided by BCM’s joint operation centre. Provincial social development spokesperson Gcobani Maswana said wrist bands had been made available to help reunite lost children  with their parents or guardians across all the provincial beaches. “We have tents and gazebos on our beaches. “We are working with the department of health and SAPS. “Our social workers are also at some of the busy spots.” He urged parents to be responsible when taking children to public places. “In  Port Elizabeth we have seen shocking reports that children as young as eight years are drinking during the festive season. “Children are being exposed to drinking all the time and we ask parents to look after their children. “We cannot just let them to be loose —  parents have to be responsible because children copy what they are doing.”