Despite promises by Buffalo City Metro to crack down on illegal drinking in public spaces during the festive season, many people continue to openly flout the bylaws at East London's Eastern Beach. In a video  on the municipality's Facebook page, BCM mayor Xola Pakati says the municipality had already activated the law enforcement division to ensure the city has an incident-free festive season. But judging by scenes at Eastern Beach, residents and visitors are paying Pakati no heed. DispatchLive visited the beach on Tuesday and witnessed many people drinking alcohol. Others were making open fires and braaing — another transgression of the bylaws. City ward councillor Jason McDowell said the illegal activities were harming the city as a tourist destination. “There are many events held at the beachfront, including the Ironman, and drinking seems to be allowed in the area. The athletes have to train here and run barefoot. But this place is full of broken glass which also damages the athletes' bicycles,” McDowell said. “There are broken bottles and public urination which makes our city look terrible. People spend a lot of money to visit BCM and this is what they have to deal with,” he said. He said unless the situation were brought under control, there could be a loss of tourism money. “Some locals also do not want to come down to the beaches because these are unsafe and dirty. No-one wants to walk through the filth and no-one wants to walk on broken bottles.” He said the municipality did not have the manpower to deal with hundreds of revellers at the beach. “BCM law enforcement  are overworked. They do not have enough members to look after the whole of BCM. Policing drinking at beaches is a problem. We are not getting any feedback from BCM about curbing drinking in public.” BCM spokesperson Samnkelo Ngwenya said the metro had employed 59 lifeguards and provided the city with 72 portable ablutions for beaches and amenities during the festive season. “On an annual basis preparations are put in place before the festive season, to prepare and manage the influx of the public. Presently these sections include the public beaches and associated tidal pools, public swimming beaches, picnic areas and related public spaces,” Ngwenya said.