Cultural activist Dr Nokuzola Mndende has opened a case against a man who labelled her a witch, claiming in 1997 she was caught inside an initiation lodge where women are strictly prohibited. Mndende filed a complaint of crimen injuria against the man, who made the allegations on Facebook, at Dutywa police station on Monday. This was confirmed by provincial police spokesperson Brig Tembinkosi Kinana, who said police were investigating. In the Facebook post last Thursday, the man, whose identity is known to the Dispatch but who cannot be named as he has not yet appeared in court, also lashed out at the people of Willowvale, saying they regarded Mndende as their "God". He said Mndende had ambitions of being  a traditional surgeon despite being a woman. The man  has since deactivated his Facebook account.​ Mdende said the comments had defamed her character and degraded her dignity as "a rural woman and cultural activist''. Mndende was alerted to the Facebook allegations by people she knew. She  is director of the Icamagu Heritage Institute, national chair of the Council of African Religion and a former deputy chair for the commission on traditional leadership disputes and claims. ''This is defamation of character. The statement is very demeaning and inflammatory, hence I have decided to lay  criminal charges with SAPS against the individual, who unfortunately I do not know and have never related to him. I want him to be arrested,  publicly apologise and clear my name,'' said Mndende. "I was phoned by angry people saying there was a person on Facebook degrading my dignity by saying I was found inside an initiate lodge at Twyaka village in Willowvale in 1997 and that at one stage I wanted to be a traditional surgeon. There were comments that my acts were those of a witch." She said she agreed with the perception in traditional culture that a woman found in an initiation hut should be regarded as a witch, as women were not allowed to set foot in initiation schools. "But I also believe that to make such serious allegations that a certain woman, in this case myself, was found inside an initiate's hut is to incite violence against that individual. It is such allegations that see innocent and vulnerable women slaughtered or burnt alive by mobs. We have seen many innocent, mostly elderly women, especially in rural areas, butchered after they were accused of witchcraft. I cannot even imagine what could have happened to me due to this callous, baseless and untruthful statement,'' said Mndende. She  confirmed she was not even in the area in 1997.  Tywaka traditional leader MacDonald Mhaga supported Mndende.  ''There has been no woman in the history of this village who was found in an initiation hut. I am 67 and I have lived in this village since birth,'' said Mhaga. Another supporter, Nkosi Manduleli Bikitsha, said: ''What this man is saying about Dr Mndende and Tywaka village is just all lies. I have never heard such allegations. He must not drag our village in the mud,'' said Bikitsha. lulamilef@dispatch.co.za