A 72-year-old grandmother was stabbed to death and her grandchildren held hostage by an alleged attacker in a crime spree that has rocked the village of Nyandeni in Libode. The half-naked body of Novelile Joyce Gedezana  was found soaked in blood in front of her two-room flat on Sunday morning. She had been stabbed many times in the upper body. Gedezana's two grandchildren, a six-year-old boy and four-year-old girl, were also snatched from the flat, allegedly by her killer. The woman and her grandchildren had been sleeping when the attacker kicked down the door to gain entry in the early hours of Sunday morning, according to village elders. However, the children were returned to Gedezana's neighbour about 2am on Monday morning. Both were unharmed, but pointed out the alleged criminal to village elders. A 30-year-old man was arrested by police later on Monday morning. Eastern Cape provincial police spokesperson Brigadier Tembinkosi Kinana said the suspect would appear in the Libode magistrate's court once he had been charged. “He will be facing murder and kidnapping charges,” he said. “Rape (of the grandmother) cannot be confirmed at this stage. Investigations are continuing to determine that possibility.”  When the Dispatch team arrived at Gedezana's home on Monday, her eldest son, Enoch Mafutha Gedezana, said he had rushed from his neighbouring Modaphi village to Nyandeni to find  his mother lying half-naked and blood-soaked in front of her flat. “I got a call from my niece on Sunday about 7.30am and I rushed home,” he said. “We want to know why he committed such an atrocious act. We want to know what drove him to kill my mother,” he said. Enoch's aunt, Novusumzi Soxujwa, said they wanted the man responsible for Gedezana's death to be put behind bars for life. She said he had also traumatised the  children by kidnapping them. Gedezana's twin brother, Zamayedwa Tyibibana, praised the grandchildren who had pointed out where the suspect had kept them, saying: “We looked for them for hours and we are grateful that he did not hurt them. Our wish is that he never sets foot in this village again.” The traditional leader of the village, Nkosi Dalukulunga Ndamase, also called for the death penalty to be reinstated to deal with rampant violence and femicide in the country. “This [incident] has tainted the image of this village and has brought shame upon its residents,” he said. He  commended the police for their swift action in apprehending the suspect. Andile Hanise, who is also the community policing forum chair in Nyandeni, said many residents were angry about Gedezana's killing. “We are not used to this in this village. We only hear about these tragic incidents on television.”  Eastern Cape social development MEC Siphokazi Mani-Lusithi, through her departmental spokesperson Gcobani Maswana, had also condemned the incident. “We condemn this in the strongest possible terms. We are calling on communities to work with us to stop the scourge of attacks on women and GBV,” she said.  