The recent departure of department of monitoring & evaluation director-general Mpumi Mpofu has raised concern about the absence of women in top government posts. In the 46 national departments there are only five female directors-general, three of whom are in acting positions. The department of public service & administration said its data from October showed that there were only four female DGs compared with 28 males who are permanent. There were three acting DGs who are female and 11 males. These figures have become worse with Mpofu’s departure. She has joined the Airports Company SA as CEO. Last month, the department of health announced that its director-general, Precious Malebona Matsoso, was to leave by mutual agreement with health minister Zweli Mkhize. The gender disparity is more obvious at provincial level where three out of nine provincial directors-general are female. Directors-general are the highest decision-makers in the administrative arms of the state and run government departments. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s spokesperson, Khusela Diko, said the president was concerned about the dwindling numbers of female DGs. “He has committed the government to do more to ensure more females are appointed as DGs.” Diko said that beyond the issue of gender disparity, the president was also concerned about the capacity of the state. “The weakened capacity of the state is the chief focus area for the president,” she said. The president has the final say on who is appointed as a DG on the recommendation of the cabinet. When Ramaphosa appointed his executive in May, he was lauded for appointing female ministers. But senior civil servants said there was a distinct lack of female managers in the public service. “It is a mix between the lack of female managers suitable for the jobs and oversight from those appointing DGs,” a senior civil servant said. The Sunday Times understands that another female DG is on her way out. Those who are acting DGs include Pumla Williams, of the Government Communication and Information System, and Welhemina Reshoketswe Tshabalala of the department of women. Public service and administration minister Senzo Mchunu weighed in saying: “The statistics are not looking good. Ensuring gender balance is one of the priorities of the Sixth Administration and we ensure that whenever there is a vacancy, we do not lose sight of the goal of ensuring gender parity”.