An East London actress has proved that perseverance pays off after joining the cast of one of the biggest TV shows in Mzansi, Generations: The Legacy. Busi Kondleka, 23, has joined the star-studded cast, which includes the likes of Rapulana Seiphemo, Vusi Kunene and Manaka Ranaka. She has been cast as “Melokuhle”, a young women's rights activist. Kondleka said acting on the soapie, which has more than eight million viewers, was a dream come true. She first appeared on SA TV screens earlier this month and said she was thrilled to be able to work alongside established actors and actresses on a show she had admired for a long time. “This experience has been amazing. I am still trying to put it into words and wrap my head around the experience. I grew up watching Generations and looking up to actors like Rapulana Seiphemo and Vusi Kunene and to call them my colleagues is something I am grateful for. “My experience on the set has been enjoyable and informative. I am honing my craft while working with some of the best in the industry,” she said. The former West Bank High School pupil said she had auditioned many times   before landing the big role. The Generations team selected her after three rounds of callbacks in September. She began shooting in October and said she was excited to explore the character of Melokuhle. “Considering the growing number of gender-based violence cases in our country, I hope this role will inspire young people to take part and stand up against gender-based violence. Melokuhle is only 16 years old, yet she is vocal and active about women's rights and attends rallies. “The role was intentional from the producers and directors of the show, as it appeared at the start of the 16 Days Of Activism campaign in the country,” said Kondleka. Kondleka is a public relations and media communications graduate of the Cape Peninsula University of Technology in Cape Town. She said her academic studies would help her understand the entertainment industry holistically. She has also acted on Mzansi Magic's Isithembiso. “There is still a lot of room for growth in my life and I am eager to learn. All I did was watch TV when I was younger and that was my way of studying the industry. I have now been able to take that further and be a part of something so big. “I was doing PR work for a medical practice and now I am on of the biggest shows in the country. This is all in God's plan,” she said. Kondleka said her character would remain on Generations The Legacy into the new year, but hoped the character would grow with the show. The soapie airs every weekday on SABC1 at 8pm.