TruFM midday show co-host and hip hop head Baxolise “Buck” Matyila has died. Matyila, 34, died on Saturday morning at Bhisho Hospital where he had been receiving medical care for a month. Dispatch confirmed the news with TruFM station manager Masi Mdingane. Mdingane said Matyila died following a short illness. Matyila last tweeted on December 13 expressing discontent over allegedly incompetent workers at an unnamed hospital. In the short tweet he said: “I've been in hospital for about a week now. The way the practitioners here fail to amaze me everyday ngobu incompetent kwa public is actually awe inspiring [Sic].” Mdingane said: “I can confirm the passing. We did not expect him to leave us so soon. We had hoped he will recover. We were talking to him while he was in hospital and he did not show any signs that he would pass away.” He said Matyila started his career with the the station in 2007 when it was still known as CKI FM. He became one of the first group of on-air personalities when the station re-branded into TruFM. “On the station he has gone on to host a number of shows in his decade plus [with us], which include specialty hip hop shows, the breakfast and also afternoon drive.” The news sparked an outpouring of tributes and condolences from Matyila's colleagues including news readers, presenters and SABC reporters on Saturday. Tru FM newsreader Ondela Mbana wrote: “I'm so heartbroken, radio will never be the same without you.” Responding to one of Mbana's series of posts, Umhlobo Wenene FM marketing manager Faith Mngandi said: “I just can't believe this.” “This shocking news! Heartfelt condolences to his family and the broader Tru FM family,” responded government spokesperson Andile Nduna on Facebook. Former TruFM newsreader and Umhlobo Wenene FM presenter Mafa Bavuma said: “Shocked! Ziindaba zokusweleka kuka Buck Matyila [shocked by the news of Buck Matyila's death] such an energetic, passionate and seasoned broadcaster of my generation. RIP brother.....ugqatso ulufezile.” SABC sport journalist Lunga Mantakana wrote: “One of the few very few, real people I've ever met in my broadcast life. What you see, it is definitely what you will get from this little giant broadcaster. NO FAKE energy galore #RIPBuck.” The news came as a major blow for the TruFM family who are still recovering from the sudden deaths of sport presenter Xola Stefans and SABC news assigning editor Khaya Mpunzima in September and November respectively. Matyila was the host of the Midday Frequency show aired between 12 and 3pm weekdays on TruFM.Matyila family spokesperson Cikizwa Matyila could not be reached for comment on Saturday.