Going above and beyond the call of duty is all in a day’s work for a Berlin police officer — but try telling that to two brothers, who consider her nothing less than a hero after her attempts to help them. Sergeant Thembisa Nyongo recently came across  Mziyanda Sontlabe, 50, pushing his wheelchair-bound brother Thembinkosi, 54, on the road between Mdantsane and King William’s Town. Nyongo first saw the brothers while she was on duty in NU1 Mdantsane on Thursday. When she left work that evening, she saw them again, about 60km from East London moving in the direction of King. After chatting to them, she learnt that they had been kicked out of their NU12 home by a close relative. Since then, she has been doing everything in her power to help. “I stopped and asked them where they were going, and they told me they had no fixed place to stay. They said they were going to find a place to sleep in King,”  Nyongo told DispatchLive on Monday. “That touched my heart and I thought of ways to help them. I bought them food and found them a place to sleep on that day,” she said. “I tried my level best. I even called the department of social development to assist, but without success. My fear is for them getting knocked down by cars while on the road or getting attacked. I could not just leave them like that.” Nyongo is now appealing to members of the public to assist the brothers with shelter. “I am calling on everyone who can, to assist them, even by buying building material to erect a shack. I will gladly look for a site for them. Their situation is painful,” she said. This is not the first time Nyongo has come to the aid of residents. In 2014, she assisted a 10-year-old Duncan Village resident who was taking care of his paralysed grandmother, to get a decent home. “I’ve had similar incidences in the past and people have got help. I am hoping the brothers get help as well.” The siblings are currently living in a place of safety in King William’s Town until permanent accommodation can be secured. This was organised by another man who has also taken pity on them, although Mziyanda did not know the man’s name. Mziyanda, who has been taking care of his older brother, left paralysed after an attack, said they had been living a painful life since their mother passed away in 1990. “We have been living in the bushes. Sometimes we get drenched by the rain, but we thank God that he kept us safe. We appreciate what they (Good Samaritans) have done for us,” Mziyanda said. “We don’t have to worry about chilly weather or where our next meal will come from for now. We were told we can stay here until Christmas, but we don’t know where we will go after that. We will appreciate any help we get.” * Members of the public who would like to help the brothers can contact Dispatch reporter Ziyanda Zweni on 043-702-2104.