The City of Tshwane has announced that load-shedding will not be implemented on Tuesday, but this does not mean the lights are on. The Pretoria CBD and a large part of north-western Pretoria were hit by a power outage in the early hours of Tuesday morning due to a fire at the Kwagga substation. Affected areas include Rosslyn, Atteridgeville, Laudium, Sunnyside, Parktown, Mayville, Wonderboom, Sinoville, Bon Accord, Magalieskruin, Soshanguve and Pretoria North, the city said. Tshwane emergency services spokesperson Charles Mabaso said the fire broke out at about 3am. Mabaso said firefighters were dispatched to the area at about 3.30am. He said containing the blaze had been complicated due to oil leaking from the substation. Mabaso said firefighters used foam to suppress the fire. The damage is estimated at between R150,000 and R180,000, according to a community page. Cable faults, load-shedding and waterlogging due to the persistent rain are also hampering repairs. Commenting on power outages in Centurion on Sunday, the city said: “Efforts to restore power to Monavoni, Raslouw, Erasmia, Eldoraigne, Kosmosdal and Louwlardia are hampered by wet weather and load-shedding.” “These areas are affected by medium-voltage cable faults. One circuit per area is being repaired and energised to restore power, while the remaining circuits are also being repaired to stabilise the network. “Repair sites are waterlogged from rising groundwater during excavations, making it difficult for cable repairs to be fast-tracked, despite covers/shelters being set up. “For safety reasons no artisan is allowed to work on a network that is out during load-shedding. We understand residents’ frustrations and apologise sincerely for the inconvenience they are experiencing. Please bear with us while our teams are making every effort, under trying circumstances, to restore power.” On Saturday, the city told Soshanguve residents who were without power that this was due to cable fault after load-shedding. It said teams were busy with repairs, but the rain was hampering their progress.