Mthatha partygoers are in for a host  of activities this season, with the annual Native’s Summer Party on Thursday promising to be like nothing ever seen before. This year's edition — the sixth — adds food and fashion elements, as well as a boot camp and a biker's show. The Native’s, which sees A-list musicians and celebrities descending on  the city  every December, has become a flagship event for SA's easternmost city. Though the event has attracted 18 national artists, it is also a vibrant platform for young, upcoming musicians and DJs to showcase their talents. Upbeat founder and organiser Zwelinzima “DJ PK” Dweba said the event, now an important feature on Mthatha’s entertainment calendar, was bringing more and more people home for the festive season to contribute to the economy of the city. “We started this event especially for Mthatha natives who now live in other parts of the country, hence the name. “Last year we had  more than 10,000 people and this year we expect double the number, or at least 15,000,”  Dweba said. The Native’s Summer Party, which began as just a music festival, is evolving fast. Organisers envisage a modern lifestyle festival, and although fashion and music are  key components — with one of the best  musical lineups of the festive season — it was also about promoting a healthy and social lifestyle, Dweba said. The event will kick off with a boot camp from 6 to 11am on the day, followed by a food and fashion fair. A biker show will be held alongside the main music event at midday. ''The lineup of Native Summer Party is the most diverse in the country,” Dweba said. “We have 18 national artists in the festival and we take the most current, hottest A-list artists. "We also have about 40 local artists who will share the stage with the national artists. “This is my way of giving artists a platform to perform and network with national artists as well.” The lineup includes award-winning DJ Tira, Naak Musiq, Anathi, Yanga Chief, DJ PH, DJ Zinhle, Emi Faku, Andile Mpisana, Zintle Kwaaiman, Samthing Soweto, Kabza De Small, Maphorisa, Destruction Boyz, Betusile Mcinga, Colours of Sound and Master Dee. Popular entertainer Zodwa Wabantu will join TruFM DJ Akhona Xcellent, Dombolo of UCR radio and Cheshisto as hosts. ''But alongside the grooving and partying, and the fashion and lifestyle aspects, The Natives is a place where old friends can meet and rekindle relationships, and the festival itself is about social responsibility. “Last year Native’s indirectly contributed about R100m to the city and gave a big boost to tourism. “The little we will make from the event will be shared with the needy, as we will be donating to schools and putting a smile on the little souls’ faces,''  Dweba said. Tickets are available at Computicket at R250 for general access, R750 for VIP tickets and R1000 for VVIP. At the Mthatha 2010 stadium gates, tickets are R300 and R800.