A Komani-born crafter and entrepreneur who used to patch shoes and soccer balls at an early age in his Ilinge township home, is making waves in the leather garment manufacturing business. Simo Sizani, founder of Blaqmor Leather, was selected as a top designer by world-renowned fashion designer Laduma Ngxokolo during the Chivas Regal fashion development programme  in Gauteng recently. Sizani makes leather bags for laptops, wallets, card holders, key holders and belts. His  handcrafted leather items so impressed Ngxokolo, who founded the popular Maxhosa brand, that he was offered a cash prize to inject  into his business. “Blaqmor prides itself on handcrafted and custom made items, Sizane said. “It all started off with bags and belts for colleagues at a company I used to work for." The items gained so much popularity that I knew I needed to start a business. So in 2015 I dedicated all my time to Blaqmor, using my hands to create quality leather items.” Sizani said he was now making car key cases and he hoped to partner with car dealerships, which would distribute the cases. “One of my dreams is to approach well-known car dealerships which will give the key cases as gifts to their customers. The cases  add a classy and creative look to the key. We hope this will yield a positive result,” he said. Based in Mpumalanga, Sizani said he dreamt of relocating his business back to the Eastern Cape for a skills transfer programme in rural communities. He  is training two crafters and working with them to create leather items. “I want to come back home and teach people in the villages and underdeveloped areas how to make leather garments. “It is a business that can offer a sustainable income. So I believe by teaching the next person, I can transfer a skill that will make them money to help get them out of poverty,” he said. He said his talent had been nurtured by his late mother, who worked as a domestic worker. “My mother used to come home with shoe parts that we would work on and improve to sell. “She was the person who really knew that I was gifted  in  crafts. That  led to me patching  shoes  and also soccer balls. “That was when my talent gained momentum. When my mother passed away, I tapped into my love for leather and began making items for people.” Sizani’s leather items are displayed  on his Blaqmor Leather Facebook page and can be ordered  on blaqmor@gmail.com.