A flight with over 50 people on board from Johannesburg to Mthatha was turned away from the airport on Friday for attempting to land 10 minutes after the airport's closing time at 6pm. The incident happened amid ongoing tensions between airline SA Express and the management of the government-run airport over breach of operating regulations. Eastern Cape transport spokesperson Unathi Binqose blamed SA Express, saying the carrier continued to "ignore operating procedures" which included landing and taking off on time as well as reporting technical problems. The 46 adults and three infant passengers aboard flight SA1447 were booked in for the night at  Tsogo Sun International Hotel in Johannesburg, said  SA Express spokesperson Mpho Majatladi. The Mthatha Airport official who apparently  ordered air traffic controllers and baggage handlers to pack up and leave, even as the flight began descending, refused to comment. Majatladi said: “SA1447 between Johannesburg and Mthatha was delayed and subsequently cancelled due to technical and operational reasons.” She said: “SA1447 experienced a technical delay and by the time the technical team ensured that the aircraft was serviceable and ready for takeoff, Mthatha Airport and all relevant service providers (air traffic, baggage handling etc.) were already in the process of closing.” The passengers  were mainly holidaymakers. Gauteng advocate Babalwa Nodada, who was heading home for a traditional ceremony, said she missed an important meeting that preceded the Saturday ceremony. “We were turned back to Johannesburg. There was no apology nor explanation. My brother was there [at Mthatha Airport] to pick me up and the flight literally turned back! When I heard the announcement I thought maybe I missed something but realised it was true! We were about literally 10 minutes away! What a wow!” Nodada's brother, Zuko Nodada,  took to Facebook to vent his frustration. “ SA Express couldn't land in Mthatha airport because the airport manager couldn't wait just 10 minutes beyond 6pm which is their knock-off time. Ja neh....” The post attracted 90 comments and 20 shares. Majatladi said all passengers were transported the following day at 6.50am and landed safely at Mthatha airport by 8am. Majatladi said Mthatha Airport was unlike other larger 24-hour facilities and was required to close at 6pm. She said: “Although regrettably inconvenient for our customers, the only option available was to offer accommodation on a flight the next day when the airport reopened. “While the airline constantly strives for consistent on-time performance, the safety of its customers and flight crew are of utmost priority,” said Majatladi. Binqose apologised to the commuters on behalf of the department and slammed SA Express: “The airport operates according to set guidelines and having observed challenges experienced with SA Express in the recent past, the department discussed the matter with the airline and a commitment was made to adhere to the operating standards. In the main this related to arrangements for flying out of and landing at the Mthatha Airport in line with the operating procedures. “However, the airline has continued to ignore those procedures, including failure to communicate and make necessary arrangements when there are unforeseen challenges. “This resulted in the unfortunate incident,” he said. Asked about the future of the route, Binqose said: “As a department we are committed to ensuring smooth operations at the airport and, in so doing, we must not compromise processes.”