A second foot-and-mouth disease outbreak has crippled farmers across the country, with livestock auctions and wool sales  cancelled as a result. The minister of agriculture, land reform & rural development (DALRRD) on December 4 gazetted a national ban on the gathering of cloven-hoofed animals at livestock auctions, shows and similar activities. “Anyone spreading FMD [foot-and-mouth disease] through the movement of animals may be held civilly and/or criminally liable for such an offence,” the official statement said. SA’s status as a FMD-free zone, as recognised by the World Organisation for Animal Health, remains suspended. “This will have an adverse economic impact on the agricultural sector,” Agri SA executive director Omri van Zyl  said. Vleissentraal Eastern Cape livestock trader Lops Steyn agreed: “The national banning of livestock auctions comes at a time when farmers are already cash-strapped and adds additional pressure on the sustainability of farmers.” “The farmers are on their last resources,” Steyn said. “Amid an ongoing and increasingly severe drought, the livestock auctions targeting the Christmas market would have provided critically needed financial relief for many producers. “We’ve had to cancel our last Eastern Cape auction, where about 2,000 sheep and 500 cattle would have gone on sale. “Selling this livestock at optimal prices for the farmers will take a great effort and there will be more pressure to find wholesale buyers to support sales. “Essentially, the smaller farmers will feel this hardest,” he said. Wool producers are already taking the strain. Following news of the second outbreak, the SA Wool and Mohair Buyers’ Association Ltd (Sawamba) and the Wool and Mohair Exchange of SA postponed the highly anticipated CAT 14 wool sale scheduled in Port Elizabeth for December 5 to January 9 2020. This comes after two unprecedented auction cancellations earlier in 2019, when the first foot-and-mouth disease outbreak was announced in January. Sawamba stated again that “the FMD situation and time/temperature requirements have resulted in a growing shipping backlog, which has led to restrictions of available vessels”. To remove the risk of FMD in the fibre, wools must be stored at 4°C for four months or 18°C for four weeks, or 37°C for eight days from date of receipt. While the prohibition on live exports and wool sales has caused a serious backlog for farmers, the processed beef export trade remains in operation. SA is a nett exporter of beef. In 2018, SA exported more than 10,000 tons of beef to China. The Red Meat Industry Forum (RMIF) confirmed that, despite recent developments, the Chinese authorities remained satisfied with the drastic measures being implemented to contain the FMD crisis in SA. However, the situation remains extremely volatile. “Misinformation, rumours and non-compliance can seriously hurt these trade agreements,” Red Meat Producers Organisation CEO Gerhard Schutte said. “If we lose the China market now, it will have catastrophic consequences for the entire SA red meat industry.” The forum has called on all  public and private stakeholders to co-operate with the DALRRD  and veterinary services to mitigate the crisis. Van Zyl said: “We are concerned about the potential threat of the disease spreading to other provinces, which could be catastrophic for SA. “The tracing of infected animals needs to be done as a matter of urgency.” The deployment of upgraded security measures with the help of the SAPS on the Limpopo province’s borders has been welcomed. In the meantime, farmers have to wait out the prohibition of trade in dire conditions. “While we understand the government’s decision to ban auctions to determine the extent of the crisis; the banning of auctions can only be a short-term mitigant to contain the disease,” Van Zyl said. To contain the crisis  for good and restore SA’s FMD-free zone status, greater consultation and co-operation between all role players was needed, he said. FMD does not affect people but poses a threat to cloven-hoofed animals such as cattle, goats and sheep.