A man accused of  killing a grandmother before kidnapping her two young grandchildren and raping one of them will spend the festive season behind bars. A suspect, 30, who was arrested on Monday, a day after the half-naked body of the 72-year-old woman was found soaked in blood in front of her two-room flat in Nyandeni village near Libode, made his first appearance in the Libode magistrate's court on Wednesday. A group of Nyandeni villagers  demonstrated outside the court calling for him to be denied bail. The majority were women holding placards. Protesters and the media were unable to make their way into the court premises as security guards kept the yard gates closed. This resulted in heated exchanges between the guards and villages. After court proceedings concluded, Libode police station commander colonel Advocate Qashani said the case had been postponed to January 6 to allow the accused to find a lawyer and apply for bail. Qashani assured the crowd that, due to the nature of the crimes, police would oppose bail. He praised the residents of Nyandeni for assisting the police. “He will be taken to Wellington [Mthatha correctional centre] until his next court appearance,” Qashani said. The protest was led by Sanco, community police forum members and ANC Women's League leaders in the village. Some protesters shouted that the accused would be eating “nice food” in jail after committing terrible crimes. Sounds of the mournful and politically charged song Senzeni Na (What Have We Done) hung in the air. The slain woman's niece,  who took part in the protest, said her aunt had used her small monthly pension to feed, clothe and pay for the schooling of several of her grandchildren. She supplemented this meagre income doing odd jobs like cutting grass and using it to thatch people's houses in the village. “We don't know how the children will be affected by this,” she said. Another niece described her aunt  as a devout Christian and member of the 12 Apostles Church. She said the last time they had spoken was a conversation about saving money to buy seedlings for her garden. "I didn't know it would be the last time I spoke to her.” Women's League chairperson in Nyandeni village, Vuyokazi Mbusi, said they were all traumatised by the grandmother's death and what had happened to the children. She said in Nyandeni, many women, young and old, stayed by themselves as the men were working in the cities. “This means they are not safe,” she said. Nondumiso Ndamase, 38, a married mother of one, said every woman in Nyandeni was now living in fear as a result of the murder.