Speeding and fatigue  are believed to have claimed the lives of four people over the weekend, propelling the number of those who have lost their lives on Eastern Cape roads to close to 100. And seven people, including two children, were killed in a horrific taxi crash in KwaZulu-Natal (KZN) on Saturday. . Several passengers were also seriously injured. The Dispatch reported on Saturday that more than 80 people had perished on provincial roads since the festive season started on December 1. Such deaths have been linked by authorities to fatigue, drunken driving, speeding and sometimes to over-reliance on energy drinks. The latest horrific accident happened on Friday night on the R390 road in Hofmeyer towards Cradock, provincial transport spokesperson Unathi Binqose confirmed on Sunday. He said a Toyota Run-X had overturned and two people had been declared dead  at the scene, while two others who were in the same vehicle had suffered slight injuries. “The car was travelling from Cradock towards Hofmeyer, with the occupants  believed to be family members,” Binqose said. “The driver lost control of the vehicle. An adult female driver and  male passenger died, and two other passengers sustained slight injuries. “The injured passengers were taken to Hofmeyer Hospital for medical examination. “It is alleged that speeding and fatigue could be the main contributing factors in the accident.” A case of culpable homicide had been opened at the Hofmeyer police station for further investigations, he said. In the KZN accident, 15 passengers suffered injuries when the taxi they were travelling in veered off the R56 road between Ixopo and Umzimkhulu. It is understood that the taxi was en route to the Eastern Cape, and according to KZN emergency medical services, the crash happened at about  4am. “Sadly, seven people sustained fatal injuries. Paramedics have treated 15 people at the scene. The cause of the crash will be investigated.” On Friday paramedics treated 16 people who were injured in a taxi crash in Inanda, north of Durban. In another accident, two women died when a taxi overturned  on a gravel road in Nkalweni village in Tsolo near Mthatha. The accident happened  at about 4pm. Many people were left injured when the taxi, which had 18 occupants returning from a funeral, overturned on Saturday. “The vehicle was travelling from Mncetyana location from a funeral. While approaching Nkalweni Hill, the driver lost control and the vehicle rolled,” Binqose said. “Two female passengers were declared dead on scene, two were critical and eight seriously injured.  The rest sustained slight injuries and were taken to Dr Malizo Mpehle Memorial Hospital for further medical assistance. “It is alleged that the taxi had mechanical failure while on the downhill, and police are investigating a culpable homicide case,” he said. Meanwhile, there were  no reported drownings in some of the major OR Tambo and Buffalo City Metro beaches at the  weekend Metro spokesperson Samkelo Ngwenya confirmed to the Dispatch on Sunday  they had had no drownings since the festive kicked off on December 1. He said the metro was expecting  more than two million revellers  this holiday season. Port St Johns beach supervisor Mziwoxolo Qalwana said lifeguards were keeping a close watch on their 12 beaches. “We have had no reported drownings. Lifeguards are continuing to monitor the beaches,” he said. The notorious Second Beach, known for shark attacks and drownings in previous years, was guarded by 15 lifeguards, Qalwana said, while other beaches such as Mpande and Mngazi beaches had four lifeguards each. In Coffee Bay, a group of  lifeguards started patrolling and keeping a close eye on the two beaches, Coffee Bay and Hole in the Wall, on Saturday. This followed a three-day protest by the guards, who wanted the King Sabata Dalindyebo municipality to permanently employ them. One of the lifeguards, Fezile Bodla, said  on Sunday that they had signed work contracts and had been told their grievances would be attended to in January. “We have started to work now and there have been no drownings this weekend,” he said.