Widespread power cuts will be imposed on South Africans on Monday with Eskom announcing that loadshedding will move to Stage 4. This will be in force from 10am, until 11pm. Stage 2 loadshedding was announced earlier on Monday. Eskom said the situation has worsened with an "additional loss of units at our power stations." Earlier, Eskom cautioned the probability of load-shedding for the rest of the week remains high. “We continue to ask customers to reduce demand as a concerted collective effort can help to avoid or lessen the level of load-shedding.” Eskom stated in a previous advisory note that Stage 1 allows for up to 1,000 MW of the national load to be shed. Stage 2 allows for up to 2,000 MW of the national load to be shed. Stage 3 allows for up to 3,000 MW of the national load to be shed. Stage 4 allows for up to 4,000 MW of the national load to be shed. The frequency of load shedding increases as higher stages are used. Load shedding is implemented in two-hour blocks in most instances, however, in Eskom-supplied Johannesburg areas, blocks are four hours long to coincide with City Power’s 4-hour schedule. In general, says Eskom, Stage 1 requires the least amount of load shedding, at three times over a four-day period for two hours at a time, or three times over an eight-day period for four hours at a time. Stage 2 will double the frequency of Stage 1, which means electricity users are be scheduled for load shedding six times over a four-day period for two hours at a time, or six times over an eight day period for four hours at a time. Stage 3 will increase the frequency of Stage 2 by 50%, which means South Africans are scheduled for load shedding nine times over a four-day period for two hours at a time, or nine times over an eight-day period for four hours at a time. Stage 4 doubles the frequency of Stage 2, which means people are scheduled for load shedding 12 times over a four-day period for two hours at a time, or 12 times over an eight-day period for four hours at a time. Each of the time periods has an additional 30 minutes added to allow for switching of networks in a way that will not damage the power system.