An East London man disappeared soon after his girlfriend was found dead in her Amalinda flat this week. Busisiwe Busi Ngwadla, 37, a mother of one and self employed businesswoman selling health products, was found by neighbours lying in a pool of blood in front of her bathroom door at the Emerald Sky flats. Police spokesperson Captain Nkosikho Mzuku confirmed police were investigating after Ngwadla’s body was found on Tuesday. A neighbour, who asked not be named, told the Dispatch that Ngwadla was “butchered” by her boyfriend, who allegedly stabbed her eight times in the upper body. She claimed the boyfriend suspected the woman of cheating on him. “That guy was feared by everybody but we did not think it would get to this point. “It seemed like they were in love with each other but he was controlling her. “She did not greet anyone whenever she was walking with him. “The two did not talk to neighbours in the complex and we are all shocked with what has happened. “They were constantly fighting but no one intervened.” The woman said the couple waited for Ngwadla’s teenage son to leave for school before arguing on Tuesday morning. “She lived here with her son and after he went to school that morning we heard her screaming. Two of the tenants went to go and knock at their flat to see what was happening. “The boyfriend opened the door and his shirt had blood it. He told them Busi had a nose bleed and closed the door.” A few minutes later the boyfriend was seen rushing out of the complex, she claimed. “The neighbours left and while they were chatting on the stairs the man walked past wearing a different T- shirt. The neighbours went back to the flat to search for Busi but realised she was not responding.” The neighbours then told the apartment block’s security desk what had happened “The security guards came to open the flat. She was found lying dead in front of the bathroom door with eight stab wounds – four on her neck and others on her chest and back. “That was such a brutal scene. No one knows where the boyfriend went to after that.” Ngwadla’s distraught brother, Thabo, said the family was in shock over her death. He said the couple had been together for five years, and the boyfriend worked between Cape Town and East London. “She has been living in those flats for some years. The boyfriend lived with my sister whenever he came to East London. I never expected the guy to kill my sister, he came across as someone who is very friendly. “He even called me by my clan name, that’s how close we were. “We are shattered by what he has done. Even when a couple is arguing, nothing gives a man the right to kill a woman.”  Mzuku said no arrests had been made. “The circumstances surrounding the incident are not clear at this stage. Police are investigating a case of murder. “No arrests have been made yet, and the investigation continues.” A video of the victim’s body being carried out the flat by police has been circulating on social media.