A thousand soldiers  will march in King William's Town at the weekend during a full military funeral  for late military police commander Colonel Mzobanzi Justice Macanda. Macanda, a distinguished SA National Defence Force soldier based in Pretoria, was  killed in a car accident in the early hours on Sunday while travelling back home from a church function in Johannesburg. SANDF spokesperson Private Kabelo Tsogang announced that Macanda would be accorded Category 1 honours  because he was a “gallant fighter”. His distinguished military career will be remembered during the funeral at his Mtati location home outside King William's Town on Saturday. A thousand troops will join a splinter force already camping in the town  preparing for the busy day, the family confirmed. This follows a moving memorial service held at the Army's headquarters in Pretoria on Tuesday. “The SANDF Inspector General and Military Police are saddened by his  death. Indeed, the SA Army has lost one of a kind,” said the army's deputy chief, Maj-Gen Mannetjies De Goede. Tsogang said  Macanda was "an honourable, humble and devoted man of God, a dedicated military police officer who portrayed human values and never held grudges". Macanda was born on August 31 1966 in Mtati to the late Qobi Macanda and Nozamile Mgwatyu, and was a grandson of Alice Bhusakhwe. He joined the Ciskei Defence Force during the apartheid era, and  worked in various military environments, including as head of the Military Police at 13 Provost Marshal, SSO Military Policing, Deputy Provost Marshal General, 43 SA Brigade and SSO Inspector General of the SA Army. He is survived by his five children, Qhamani, Lutho, Zenande, Nangomso and Alph, and his two nephews, Thembela and Luphumzo and two grandchildren, Alikho and Sivulutho. Family spokesperson Advocate Mmeli Macanda described Colonel Macanda as an honest human being and a true warrior, who followed in the footsteps of his ninth Frontier War Lord great-grandfather. “He is from humble beginnings. His father died when he way still very young. He grew up with his mother and two sisters, Siziwe and Nomonde. Your background is not a determinant of your destiny.”