Dispatch  journalists Malibongwe Dayimani and Mamela Ndamase scooped four Eastern Cape Regional Vodacom Journalism awards on Tuesday. Dayimani, the Dispatch's crime reporter, won three awards, and the paper’s council reporter,  Ndamase, walked away with the award for regional politics. Dayimani won the financial/economics award for his series of articles involving a syndicate of ATM scammers who operated in the Eastern Cape last year. Vodacom’s convener of judges Ryland Fisher said the journalist  produced  well-researched articles that lifted the lid on an elaborate ATM scam targeting tourists and endangering the province's developing tourism industry. “His work led to the arrest of a number of suspects.” He also won  the investigative award for reporting on the conditions of the Eastern Cape hospitals. Fisher said: “He even secretly smuggled himself inside the causality ward of one hospital. In response to his reporting, the MEC for health rushed to one of the hospitals (Frere) to address the crisis.” His third accolade was in the multiplatform category for his reporting across print, online and social media of one of the longest-running protests in Stutterheim in 2018. Dayimani said: It is an amazing feeling to add to the culture of  multi-award winning journalism at the Daily Dispatch. "This is something that amazes judges at all the awards ceremonies that despite being a daily newspaper with very strict deadlines, and having no luxury of researching an assignment for a week like Sunday newspapers, we continue to produce hard-hitting investigating content that wins awards regionally and nationally. "I would like to thank all my colleagues and line managers for being supportive.” Fisher said Ndamase had won the politics award after exposing a councillor and her husband who sold houses that did not belong to them, to residents. They often sold the same house to more than one person. Ndamase said: "I'm happy about the recognition. Producing these kinds of stories is a team effort from the newsrooms. More importantly I would like to thank the sources. Without their tip-offs, there would be limited stories to tell.” Fisher congratulated the Eastern Cape journalists. “Every time I walk away from a judging process, I leave with a feeling of rejuvenation from the quality of journalism you produce despite all the challenges like job cuts, retrenchments and juniorisation. I am always impressed with the staff coming from the Eastern Cape.” For the first time in 18 years, Vodacom organised two Eastern Cape ceremonies. A second ceremony will  be organised on Wednesday for the Port Elizabeth press. Dispatch general manager Ryan Megaw said: "We are delighted that two of our journalists have been honoured as regional winners in the Vodacom Journalist of the year awards. "Their awards are testament to the excellent work that our dedicated team of journalists at the Daily Dispatch do in covering the news in our region. Both Mamela and Malibongwe are well-deserving of these accolades, and have shown the determination and resourcefulness that are hallmarks of top-notch journalists, and showcase the Daily Dispatch’s continued commitment to bring our readers the best possible coverage of the news that matters to them.”