An East London factory manager is  fighting for his life in hospital after he was doused with  petrol and set alight in front of 130 horrified  workers on Wednesday night. Husband and father-of-two Joseph Baartman, 47,  suffered severe burns to 50%  of his body, according to his wife, Therisa. The attack  took place at 11.30pm on Wednesday  when the Cambridge-based chip manufacturer Elzea Snacks, where Baartman is a distribution manager, came under attack by  six armed robbers. Factory owner Tyron Power said six men in balaclavas stormed the business for the third time in two nights. He said a large amount of business takings was stolen   and workers were terrorised. Power said in the latest incident, the gang forced themselves in through the gate at 10.30pm on Wednesday, disarmed and robbed a guard, then held hostage and terrorised the helpless staff. “It was really horrific — he [Baartman] got serious burn wounds. “Before running they fired a couple of shots at the trucks and disappeared into the bushes. “They didn’t enter the factory in a car,” Power said. “It was really hard to calm my employees down last [Wednesday] night.” “We’ve had three armed robberies in two nights and it’s been six males, all heavily armed. “They stormed our premises, attacked the staff and hit them with firearms in the head. “One guy got stabbed,” Powers said. Therisa said her priority was to make sure the couple’s youngest son, who is writing matric exams, was not distracted by his father’s ordeal. “He is a straight A maths, accounting and physics student, and today [Thursday] he has to prepare for the Physics paper 1. “I am very worried. “He knows what happened to his father, but I am not allowing him to see him in hospital in that condition. “It’s terrible.” In the Friday attack, Baartman was hit on the head with the butt of a gun. “They called Joseph by  name, so they have   inside information of our operations and they targeted him,” Power said. “They went straight to his office,  dragged him out, poured petrol on him and set him alight.” Power described the three hits  as well orchestrated,  with thorough  homework done on the operation of his factory. Eastern Cape provincial police spokesperson Colonel Sibongile Soci said the suspects were  still at large. A factory employee, who asked not to  be named, said she suspected the thieves  were disgruntled former employees. “They knew many people and started calling people by names, shouting instructions. “We were held hostage at gunpoint, and robbed of our personal belongings and cellphones.”