Councillors at the troubled Enoch Mgijima municipality on Tuesday resolved that municipal manager Nokuthula Mgijima should launch an investigation into the alleged selling of municipal land and leasing of farms by officials without council resolutions. The decision was taken at a special council meeting at the Komani Town Hall. The meeting started an hour late after councillors were undecided as to which agenda should be used after they had been given two different agenda — one on Friday and another on Tuesday. After a lengthy debate, councillors decided to use Tuesday’s agenda, which had some missing items that were on the agenda set for Friday. EFF councillor Luthando Amos raised the issue of businesses possibly operating from municipal land without paying a cent to the financially strained local authority. Amos demanded to see proof of payment, a council resolution and environmental assessment done on a fast-food restaurant development, which was built on municipal land on the N6 road and another housing development opposite Madeira Park. “We want the lease agreements on all municipal farms. We want the level agreements, council resolutions and proof of rentals to all the farms. “We want Mgijima to furnish us with the necessary documents,” he said. Council speaker, Bongiwe van Heerden, said council noted the item and promised that comprehensive answers would be provided at the next council meeting. However, other councillors called for the matter to be discussed and demanded that Mgijima probe the matter. ANC councillor, Phaphama Madubedube said the matter was serious, claiming there were threats against Amos in his attempt to get the item to council. “Amos has been intimidated by municipal officials. This matter needs to be investigated and the officials found to be in the wrong to be suspended. While we are still waiting for our land audit report there are people who are stealing the land behind our backs,” he said. Another ANC councillor, Bulelani Mgoqi, said they would not just accept whatever they were told. “We need to have documents which will show everything,” he said. ANC councillor, Noluthando Nqabisa, said there was a need to look at the alleged leasing and selling of municipal land and farms without following proper processes. “Those implicated in the investigation should be suspended so that they don’t interfere with the investigation. If they are not suspended they may tamper with the evidence,” she said. Mgijima was instructed to furnish councillors will a comprehensive report from her investigation at the next council meeting.