Xolani “Tiger” Mcotheli will shoulder the task of stemming the tide at Eyethu Boxing Club when he defends his SA junior welterweight title against Marcus Lebogo at Mdantsane Indoor Centre on Sunday. Eyethu Boxing Club is going through a rough patch after two of its boxers lost titles in separate tournaments last weekend. The bad run started at the International Convention Centre when the club’s champion Xolisa Magusha was dethroned of his SA mini-flyweight title by Sibusiso Bandla. The lean spell continued on the following day when Phila Mpontshane lost to Khanyile Bhulana for the vacant IBF Africa junior lightweight title. However, Mpontshane can take consolation from the fact that his South African title was not at stake in the fight. But on Sunday, Mcotheli’s title will be at stake and that would have easily not been the case had he put it up on the line in his last bout against Jabulani Makhense. During that bout he lost a unanimous decision with only the WBA Pan African crown up for grabs. Now at least he has something to fall back on. Nothing is known about Lebogo with his fight record of three losses in 14 fights being made up by rather nondescript opposition. He suffered one of the losses to Mcotsho-born Johannesburg-based boxer Gift Bholo who knocked him out. Another loss was to Michael Mokoena who lost to Duncan Village boxer Siphosethu Mvula last weekend. For that reason, Mcotheli should be a favourite to retain his title and save the blushes of trainer Ncedo Cecane. Cecane had welcomed the busy schedule, describing it as an opportunity to prove his mettle as a trainer. “I like it when our boxers are involved in these big bouts because it keeps me on my toes,” he said. While Cecane suffered two consecutive losses he showed his credentials as both decisions against his boxers were close. The main supporting bout of this Fireworks Promotions card will see former amateur star Luvuyo Sizani go after a continental title when he takes on Jackson Masamba from DRC. The vacant African Boxing Union (ABU) light heavyweight title will be at stake, giving the unbeaten Komani-based Sizani an opportunity to win his first title as a professional. Other bouts on the card will see the return of former South African champion Luzuko Siyo, an appearance by Qumbu-born Kolosa Ndobayini against Raider Muleba and three more bouts. Admission for the boxing event is R100.