Mamelodi Sundowns hammered AmaZulu FC 5-0 in the 2019 Telkom Knockout Cup Last 16 match at the Lucas Moripe Stadium on Sunday afternoon. The emphatic win saw Downs reach the quarterfinals, while Usuthu bowed out of the competition. Sundowns dominated the match from the start with Usuthu sitting back as they looked to launch quick counters. Former Sundowns defender Mario Booysen, who was making his official debut for AmaZulu, was looking solid at the heart of the visitors' defence. The hosts were able to create chances, but Thapelo Morena, Themba Zwane and Ali Jose Meza were indecisive in the final third. Morena was brought down in the Usuthu box after a challenge from Booysen, but the referee waved play on in the 16th minute. However, Downs continued to attack as they searched for the opening goal and they upped the tempo after the half-hour mark. The hosts did break the deadlock when Zwane's pass found Meza, who netted from close range to make the scoreline 1-0 to Sundowns heading into the break. The home team continued to dominate after the restart, and their lead was extended by their former player Booysen. The lanky central defender scored an own goal from Andile Jali's long-ball to make it 2-0 to Sundowns in the 54th minute much to the delight of the home crowd. The visitors were struggling to cope with South Africa international Morena's speed and Downs were awarded a penalty after the pacey player was fouled in the Usuthu box by Mbongeni Gumede. Gaston Sirino then beat AmaZulu goalkeeper Neil Boshoff from the spot-kick to extend Sundowns' lead to 3-0 in the 69th minute. The momentum was with the reigning PSL champions, and they extended their lead through Sirino, who completed his brace. The diminutive attacker beat Boshoff with a first-time effort to make it 4-0 to Sundowns with 12 minutes left on the clock with the Usuthu defence exposed. The emphatic 5-0 victory was then sealed by Mauricio Affonso, who marked his domestic debut for the team with a headed goal in the 87th minute. — DDC